In one day, I made 45% ROI with just one
zeroDT credit spreads. So, first, if you
don't know what credit spreads are, make
sure you check out this tutorial linked
in the upper right hand corner. Pause
this video, watch that, then come back.
So, first, let's take a look at the
trade. I sold a credit spread on S&P,
the S&P 500 index, put credit spread at
5775,
5770.
So, a fivepoint spread. I traded six of
this and I collected $155
of credit for every single one of these,
which means that my total credit
collected
is
$930.
Now, at the end of the day, SPS ended
out way out of the money, around like
5,800 or so. So, we were out of the
money, which means that we made max
profit.
of $930.
And we know this because anytime SPX
ends above our sold put, which is the
5775, so it's greater than 5775, we'll
make max profit.
And if it's below
5770, which is below our bottom leg, our
protection leg, we'll take our max loss,
which will be $3,000. 500 * 6 - 930
which will be $2,070
which is our max loss which means that
we can calculate my return on investment
since I made max profit of 930 which
means that it will be 930 / 2070 which
will equal 45%.
Actually just in an hour or so I made
45% return on investment. This looks
great and all right 930 45%. But how do
we actually trade this? And this is
where we're going to talk about the
strategy and this will transform how you
guys trade credit spreads. In order to
find these great trades, there is four
simple steps that we have to follow that
I like to call max. M stands for market
trend. A stands for area of interest. C
stands for criteria of entry and S
stands for stop-loss.
So what is M? M is us identifying the
trend because we ultimately want to
follow the trend whether it's an
uptrend, downtrend or going sideways.
Once we know what the trend is, then
we'll move on to the next step, which is
finding an area to potentially trade at.
But at a high level, what we're going to
do is we're going to look for these
areas of supports and resistances that
have higher than average implied
volatility. Once we identify these areas
of high reward, we're going to move on
to step number three, which is criteria
of entry. All because it enters an area
doesn't mean that we're going to take
it. We need to make sure that there is a
good reason to take that trade. This can
be candlesticks patterns such as bullish
engulfing candlesticks. Lastly, after we
enter this trade, we're going to set our
stop loss, which is our S. We want to
give out as soon as we know that we've
lost so that we can minimize our losses.
So, we're going to see these four
principles in action by reviewing that
trade that I took and applying these
four principles. If you're enjoying the
content right now, make sure you guys
like and subscribe to the channel to
make sure you never miss a video about
building those passive income streams.
First thing that we have to do is is to
look at M, which is market trend. So the
trade I took was on October 23rd. So
we're going to jump over to October 22nd
after hours to just see what the overall
trend is. So you can see right here the
market is in a pretty obvious uptrend,
right? Go from a low to a high to a
higher low to a higher high again to a
higher low again to a higher high. But
the overall long-term trend is up. But
we have to also identify what the
short-term trend is. And what I like to
do is I like to drop it down to the 30
minutes. And what you can see here is
that in the 30 minutes the market is
actually consolidating and running
sideways to a certain extent. We go from
a low to a high to a low to a high the
same high actually and then to a lower
low to a higher low again to the same
low and now to a higher high. The
long-term trend is up and the short-term
trend is kind of stagnating going
sideways.
But how do we know when to trade? So
this is where we would then start
identifying areas of interests. One
thing I like to do again is to identify
areas at a higher time scale because
these areas are usually more impactful.
So here we will start drawing areas of
resistances and supports. So the first
thing you'll notice is that there's an
area of potential support around 5770.
Right? Why this is the previous swing
low that broke up to a higher high and
if it retraces it could also potentially
be another swing high. So this is an
area of potential support around 5775.
Our area of resistance would be at 5878
because that is the last high that we
hit. We're going to draw two lines here.
One and two. Okay. Now we're going to go
drop it down to 30 to just reconfirm
these levels. There's another area of
potential support that would be around
that can act as a short-term area of
support. So, if it ever retraces into
here and it bounces up, then we can
trade in the bullish direction. If it if
it breaks this, we can potentially trade
in a bearish direction. Now that we have
the areas, let's talk about some
criterias. And I kind of already alluded
to it. If it enters these areas and it
shows something like this, for example,
right here, that is a very strong
rejection of this 5880 level, which
means that you can potentially trade in
the bearish direction, right? Because
this is a large candlestick. At the same
time, this could also act as a bullish
confirmation. I actually wouldn't take
this trade because the candlestick's
length isn't tall enough or even
something right here, right? This is
what we would call a hammer with a
another shooting star that ends up
higher than the previous candle. So,
this can also be a confirmation of
bullish intent. And so, if you see this,
you can potentially trade in the bullish
direction. So, these are three
relatively solid examples of what
criteria of entry could be. So, now that
we have this game plan, we're going to
move on to the day of the trade, which
is the 23rd, to see how we apply MAC.
And then finally S. So let's talk about
this day. There's two trades that I
would have taken. So let's talk about
the trade that I took and then also as
an example the trade that I missed
because I want to trade the trend
usually speaking, right? The trend is in
an uptrend. I want to trade in the
bullish direction. But as you can
clearly see at the day open, the market
is kind of in a bearish trend now. Broke
the previous support and it continued
all the way down into our level of
potential support. And once it enters
this 5780 level, I'm actually interested
in trading in a bullish direction. But I
need to get is a criteria of entry which
is a bullish confirmation that the trend
will continue up. So we're going to look
at this trade and this is the trade that
I took. So at 11:00 this is what we
would call a hammer. This is a very good
bullish signal in an area of support.
Areas of supports and resistances
usually accommodate and account for
higher implied volatility. If you don't
know what I'm talking about, make sure
you guys check out this video linked in
the upper rightand corner here where I
explain in depth what that means. But
here below is an implied volatility
chart. So you can see one that the
market is telling us that this is a
potential support because implied
volatility has spiked. But for me I need
one more candle to understand that this
is a bullish trend. And what I like to
do is I like to wait for the next candle
to form right at at 11:30. So my
criteria of entry my C right because we
already talked about T which is up. We
talked about A which is this area of
support. Now C is I want to see this
second candlestick break above the high
of the previous candle. So right here at
5777. Once it breaks up above that then
I'm going to enter the trade. The market
has confirmed to me to a certain extent
that the bullish trend is starting.
We're going to we're going to take this
candle right here this dryer and we're
going to drop it right above that. And
we'll drop it down to the five. You can
see that I basically traded right at the
money 5775 5770 because I'm anticipating
that the market is going to go up and
for that I took on $155 of credit. Now
after we enter this trade we have to
then figure out what S's what is our
stop loss. So I like to trade a lot on
the 30 for this pattern. So we'll go
back to 30. I'm going to set my stop
loss slightly below below the candle
that was formed the formation about
5772. I'm going to set it around 5770.
So if the market ever retraces back to
5770, then I want to get stopped out and
I want to exit this trade. And the
reason behind that is really simple. I'm
trading this uptrend here. The market
doesn't necessarily have to respect the
uptrend, right? I can be wrong. And so
the fact that this is retracing back
down, I don't feel comfortable about
that this upswing is going to happen. So
I'm going to exit first, reevaluate, and
see whether or not the market is going
to go up again. So you can see the risk
and reward is actually pretty solid. If
I were to lose around five points in
this case, I'd probably lose maybe 50
bucks per spread, but I'm planning on
making 160 give or take, right? So, my
riskto-reward ratio is around 1:3. But,
as you can see, the market went all the
way up at the end of the day, and I
exited. So, the results really not that
important. You'll end up losing some
trades, you end up winning some trades,
but the thought process and strategy
behind it is the most important thing.
We're going to do one more on the trade
that I missed earlier in the morning.
So, we know for a fact that the market
in the short term is consolidating. If
it breaks past this area of support,
then it could potentially be in a
downtrend, right? It go from a high to a
low to a lower high and now it's forming
a lower low. So, a good trade for us to
take is that if the short-term trend is
now down because this area of support is
broken, you see the same principles M,
A, and C is if it breaks this area of
support and starts dropping below it,
you can enter this trade. So, because
this is a short-term trend, I like to
drop it down to the five. So, here,
right, it's still in this level area and
it breaks right here. This is our
criteria of entry because it broke the
area of support and it's closing below.
So, after it's broken the support, we
can then now trade on the bare side by
entering a call credit spread basically
right at the money. Why? Because at this
point in time, we're anticipating that
the trend will continue to go down.
Therefore, we're allowed to be
aggressive. What is our S stop loss? One
thing you would do is you would set it
slightly above this candlestick right
here. And I would say right around if
this is 5221, I would just set it at
5224.
If it loses, you'll lose again like 50
bucks. If you win, you'll make maybe
150, maybe 200. And you can see the
market then would continue all the way
down and then you would have made max
profit on the day. If you guys have any
questions, let me know down in the
comment section below. If you want to
see how you can apply the MAX principle
to 1DTS, make sure you guys check out
this video linked in the end screen
right here. Right, until next time, stay
safe in the market.